EC2
after ec2 lauch we create web server that time (install httpd packages)
steps for install packages
sudo su
1. yum install httpd -y
2. systemctl start httpd
3. systemctl status httpd
4. systemctl enable httpd
5. cd /var/www/html/
ls -l
vi index.html
ls -l
cat index.html


this are we can automation with script

#!/bin/bash
sudo yum install httpd -y
sudo systemctl enable httpd
sudo echo "<h1> Welecome bro </h1>" >
/var/www/html/index.html
sudo systemctl start httpd


🌩️ What is Amazon EC2?

Amazon EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud) is a virtual server in the cloud that allows you to run applications on-demand without owning physical servers.

In simple words:

EC2 = Virtual Machine in AWS Cloud.

You can launch, configure, manage, and terminate these virtual servers whenever you want.

⚙️ Key Features of EC2
Feature	Description
Elasticity	You can increase or decrease the number of EC2 instances anytime based on demand.
Scalability	Supports Auto Scaling to automatically add/remove instances based on load.
Pay-as-you-go	You pay only for what you use (per second/hour).
Variety of Instance Types	Different configurations for CPU, RAM, Storage, and Networking to suit different workloads.
Secure	Integrates with IAM, Security Groups, and Key Pairs for strong security control.
Customizable	Choose your own OS (Linux, Windows, Ubuntu, etc.) and install any software you need.
🧩 EC2 Components

Let’s break down the main components that make EC2 work:

1. Amazon Machine Image (AMI)

Template used to launch an instance.

Contains the OS and pre-installed software.

You can use:

AWS-provided AMIs

Marketplace AMIs

Your own custom AMIs

2. Instance Type

Determines the hardware configuration (CPU, memory, storage, and network).

Examples:

t2.micro → small, free-tier eligible (for testing)

m5.large → general-purpose

c6g.xlarge → compute-optimized

p4d.24xlarge → GPU instance for ML

3. Instance

A running virtual server created from an AMI.

You can start, stop, or terminate it anytime.

Each instance gets:

Private IP (for internal network)

Public IP (optional, for internet access)

Instance ID (unique identifier)

4. EBS (Elastic Block Store)

It’s a persistent storage volume attached to an EC2 instance.

Works like a hard drive for your instance.

You can:

Detach and reattach to another instance

Create snapshots (backups)

5. Security Group

Acts as a virtual firewall for your instance.

Controls inbound and outbound traffic using rules (by IP, port, or protocol).

Example:

Allow SSH (port 22) from your laptop IP

Allow HTTP (port 80) for web traffic

6. Key Pair

Used for secure login to your EC2 instance.

Consists of:

Public Key (stored in AWS)

Private Key (.pem file) (you keep this)

Used for SSH authentication.

7. Elastic IP

A static public IP that you can assign to any instance.

Stays the same even if you stop or start the instance.

8. User Data

Script that runs automatically when the instance launches.

Used for initial setup or software installation (like web servers).

Example (Linux):

#!/bin/bash
sudo yum update -y
sudo yum install httpd -y
sudo systemctl start httpd
sudo systemctl enable httpd

🧠 EC2 Lifecycle

Launch – Create an instance using AMI & configuration.

Running – Instance is active and can be accessed.

Stopped – Instance is off but data remains in EBS.

Terminated – Instance and data are deleted permanently.

💰 Pricing Models
Type	Description	Use Case
On-Demand	Pay per second/hour	Short-term, unpredictable workloads
Reserved Instances	1 or 3-year commitment with discount	Long-term, steady usage
Spot Instances	Use spare AWS capacity at big discounts	Flexible, fault-tolerant apps
Savings Plans	Flexible pricing plan with commitment	Cost optimization
Dedicated Hosts	Physical servers for compliance	Licensing and regulatory needs
☁️ Example: Launching a Web Server on EC2

Go to AWS Management Console → EC2.

Click Launch Instance.

Choose an AMI (e.g., Amazon Linux 2).

Choose Instance Type (e.g., t2.micro).

Configure:

Security Group (allow SSH, HTTP)

Key Pair (.pem file)

Launch Instance.

Connect via SSH:

ssh -i mykey.pem ec2-user@<Public-IP>


Install Apache:

sudo yum install httpd -y
sudo systemctl start httpd


Access your instance’s Public IP in a browser → web page loads 🎉

📊 Monitoring & Management Tools

CloudWatch → Monitor CPU, memory, network metrics.

AWS Systems Manager → Manage and patch instances.

Elastic Load Balancer (ELB) → Distribute traffic across instances.

Auto Scaling Group (ASG) → Automatically scale in/out based on demand.

🧭 Use Cases

Hosting websites or applications

Running backend services or APIs

Data processing or batch jobs

Machine learning model training

Development and testing environments
